>> Kadi Kraman: So right now,
we have hard coded our state for
whether the user has on board or not.
This is obviously not what we're
going to do in our real application,
we need to have some
kind of state management.
Even at the intercourse,
you saw us using async storage to
persist some data across app launches.
And we're pretty much going
to do the same thing,
but we're going to use
a state management library.
And in pretty much all production, I would
say in most production applications,
you are going to use a state management
library instead of using async storage
manually.
But most state management libraries
will use async storage under the hood,
to actually persist your
data across app launches.
So which state management library use,
I'm not really advocating for
any particular one.
There's a couple of popular examples here.
So we have Redux, of course,
with Redux Toolkit,
which is pretty lightweight these days.
We have Zustand, which I think a lot
of people who were old school Redux
users have migrated to Zustand because it
is quite an easy and natural migration.
And we have Yotai, which is more
lightweight and hooks -based.
So as I said, I'm not advocating for
any particular one,
I recommend that if you're choosing
a state management library for
your own project,
you just try out a couple of these.
Or at least try out all three and choose
one that you and your team like, yes.
>> Speaker 1: Do you automatically go to
a state management library when starting
an app, or
do you rely on maybe optimizing second and
maybe use I don't know if context is
popular in the react native world?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah, for sure.
So context is really good, really useful.
If I need to persist data across app
launches, I would use a state management
library just because I don't want
to handle the async storage,
get from storage and save from storage.
And I don't want to handle the sinking
because a state management library will do
it for you and it will do it in
a more optimized way as well, so
we're not saving all the time.
>> Speaker 1: You said between app
launches, Is that what you said between?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Kadi Kraman: So basically in our case
we have this has finished onboarding
boolean.
And every time I close and
reopen in my app,
this will be reset to true because it's
just a constant that I've defined here.
Or in case I'm not even updating it,
it's just a constant.
But what we want to do is that once
the user has finished onboarding,
we will set this to true and
save it into our device storage.
So that the next time the user
opens the app they don't have to do
onboarding again.
All right, so
let's install the Zustand library.
>> Kadi Kraman: I'll try
to keep it in my VS Code.
So I stop my server, install Zustand.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so let's create
a new folder in the top level.
And we'll call it our store, and
we'll put all our Zustands stores in here,
and let's create a new
file called User Store.Ts.
Now we want to, so
we're using TypeScript, so
let's type our user store so
what we're going to implement.
So a user store is going to have
a Boolean as finished onboarding.
This will be a Boolean that is mandatory,
and it's gonna have a function,
to toggle this onboarding to true and
false.
So toggle has onboarded,
>> Kadi Kraman: And
this will be a function, and
return nothing.
So onboarded.
Installing a spell check on my VS Code,
code has been incredibly handy,
I make a lot of spelling errors.
All right, so
this is what we're going to implement.
So let's import create from Zustand.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we want to create our userStore.
So we understand what you actually
export is a hook to your store.
So export const useUserStore.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we're going to create,
>> Kadi Kraman: So
this will be a function.
And we're going to, with TypeScript,
we're gonna pass our userStore in here.
So just to define what
we're going to create.
And then inside this,
we're going to have a function.
So this will have set to update the store,
and we'll have some initial, there we go.
So this needs to return the object,
I think this is right.
And we're gonna have our initial state.
So has finished onboarding.
Let's start with, false.
And we'll do toggle has onboarded,
which will be a function.
>> Kadi Kraman: We're gonna use this set,
so,
this is how you update the state
of your zest and store.
And then we can use set, so,
this will get the state.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we're going to
return the new state of the store.
So return,
let's spread the existing state,
this is why it's like Redux.
Feels right at home.
hasFinishedOnboarding, and
this is toggle so
we're just going to go to
state.hasFinishedOnboarding and
then flip the Boolean, okay.
So this is a little store where we
have our hasFinishedOnboarding,
which is a Boolean, and then a function
to toggle it from true to false.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now, in our layout file,
instead of having this hard-coded value,
let's do hasFinishedOnboarding,
and this will be useUserStore.
So the hook that we've just created and
this takes a function,
where you get the state and
then you pick the things you
want to include from the state.
So we'll do a state hasFinishedOnboarding.
So you could conceivably
create a hook here that
just returns all of
the values in your state.
But, I think the convention is to do
one value at a time just because to
make it a bit optimizing for updating.
So every time this store updates all
the functions that listen to this
change would obviously,
all the components would get re-rendered.
So if you're listening to
something that you're not using,
it would get re-rendered unnecessarily.
So that's where we're specifically
using this constant and
picking out this hasFinishedOnboarding.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so let me,
>> Kadi Kraman: Start my bundle again.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
let's go to our onboarding screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: And in the screen, so
in the intercourse, it said that we almost
never used the native button element
from but this is the moment.
It is really useful for having some quick
buttons if you need to test things.
So, let's replace this with a button,
and title will be ''Let me in!''.
And onPress,
we need to add this handlepress function.
>> Kadi Kraman: So onPress, we're going
to call handlePress and in this function,
we need to also hook into our start store,
but we want to get our toggle
has on boarded function so
we could toggle it from false to true.
So const
>> Kadi Kraman: ToggleHasOnboarded,
>> Kadi Kraman: So be useUserStore from
our store then we get the state and
we pick out our toggle
has unboarded function.
Right, so we press, we want to
toggleHasOnboarding state
from true to false.
Now if you do this,
you notice that nothing happens.
And the reason is that this
layout file where we're doing
the switch isn't being rendered.
So if we work backwards, so
right now we're in this onboarding screen,
this is what's being rendered.
So if we work backwards
in order of rendering,
we're getting this onboarding screen and
then the layout screen that's in the same
folder so that's rendered first.
So we're getting a layout on boarding so
none of this path is rendered at all.
So for that reason we have to manually
navigate into our app as well.
So for this we can use
programmatic navigation, so
let's use the use router hook.
So we'll do const router and
we'll useRouter This is from Expo router.
And after the toggle, we'll do router and
you have a couple of navigation
application options here.
The important ones, I guess, is back, so
you can go to back to a previous
screen on your stack.
You can do navigate, so
this will be navigating to a screen.
You can do push,
which pushes the next screen onto a stack.
And in our case,
we're actually going to use replace.
So this will replace the current
between the stack or
current stack with the next root.
The reason we're doing replace, is that we
don't want the users to be able to swipe
and go back to onboarding,
that doesn't make sense.
So we want to actually replace
our stack with the home.
>> Kadi Kraman: So now if I do let me in,
it actually opens our home screen and
again for testing,
I've used toggle here on purpose so
we could go back to onBoarding
which is handy for testing.
So in our profile screen,
let's add a button here as well.
So we'll use the same
button from React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's do Button title,
say Back to onboarding.
And on press we will do const.
>> Kadi Kraman: ToggleHasOnboarded,
this will be from our store again.
So useUserStore and we'll go to the store,
and we'll pick out the toggleHasOnboarded
function, and then on press,
we will toggle the onboarded state.
Get rid of some styles we're not using,
this is why I installed
that ESLint plugin.
Here it is, lovely.
And if I go to profile,
now if I go back to onboarding,
this will open my onboarding state again.
And finally,
you'll notice that our navigation here is
maybe a little bit sub Optimal.
We are navigating by
sliding in the screen and
we can change the animation
of the navigation.
So by default, we will,
because we're entering in a stack,
it will just float in from the right.
So if we go to the root layout file,
let's open the,
let's go to the onboarding screen and
pass in some options.
So firstly, cool.
Well, that was silly of me.
So firstly let's hide
the onboarding header.
So we'll do a header shown,
>> Kadi Kraman: And for the animation,
let's do animation fade.
Let's do animation fade for
the tabs there as well.
So let me go back to onboarding.
So now, when we toggle between them,
the screens actually fade
into from one to the other,
which this animation makes a lot more
sense when it comes to onboarding.
But you can use a different
animation here and
you can also configure custom animations.